[OSDOCS#18862]: Added conditions for TNF in backup and restore (#109410)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/dr-restoring-cluster-state.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="dr-scenario-2-restoring-cluster-state_{context}"]
= Restoring to an earlier cluster state for more than one node

[role="_abstract"]
You can use a saved etcd backup to restore an earlier cluster state or restore a cluster that has lost the majority of control plane hosts.

For Two Node {product-title} with Fencing (TNF) clusters, a single surviving node can continue to operate in degraded mode. Use a saved etcd backup to restore an earlier cluster state if only one node is operational, or when both nodes have failed and you need to restart the cluster from a known safe state. In both cases, perform the restore procedure on a single node. The peer node automatically synchronizes its data with the restored node when it rejoins the cluster.

For high availability (HA) clusters, to maintain high availability and prevent a cluster split, shut down etcd on the following number of hosts:

- For 3-node clusters: Shut down etcd on two hosts.

> - For 4-node and 5-node clusters: Shut down etcd on three hosts. 

Reviewer: You use Two-node or two-node earlier. Should you use a numeral or letters?

Author: it should be 2-node for better readability as per IBM style guide. However, if this is a start of a statement or topic title, use Two-node

+
This procedure assumes that you copied the `backup` directory containing the etcd snapshot and the resources for the static pods to the `/home/core/` directory of your recovery control plane host.

. Use SSH to connect to the recovery host. To restore the cluster from an earlier backup, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ sudo -E /usr/local/bin/cluster-restore.sh /home/core/<etcd-backup-directory>
----

. Exit the SSH session.
  
. When the API responds, to turn off the etcd Operator quorum guard, run the following command:
+
[IMPORTANT]
====

> For a two-node cluster with fencing (TNF) setup, do not:

Reviewer: Two-node/two-node

Author: 2-node

  * change the etcd Operator quorum setting. 

  * turn off the etcd Operator quorum.

>   * turn it on back.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Change the etcd Operator quorum setting. 

  * Turn the etcd Operator quorum off.

  * Turn the the etcd Operator quorum on back.
```

.Troubleshooting

> If you see no progress rolling out the etcd static pods, you can force redeploy from the `cluster-etcd-operator`.

Reviewer: I would revert this change. Or maybe, for clarity:

```suggestion
If you see no progress rolling out the etcd static pods, you can manually force an etcd redeployment by running the following command:
```
(I got the force redeploy wording from the verification step in [Replacing an unhealthy etcd member whose machine is not running or whose node is not ready](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/4.6/html/backup_and_restore/control-plane-backup-and-restore#restore-replace-stopped-etcd-member_replacing-unhealthy-etcd-member)
